  Ravenloft, is a legendary module that any D&D fan worth their salt knows of. Despite this I know very little about the specifics of the actually module. If you are new to D&D understanding a module is very simple. If you imagine the D&D game as a television, the module is the show you would watch. A module can be anything from the adventures on teh high seas or a romp through a dungeon. The importance of Ravenloft, is how it changes the established formula in ways that benefeit the medium as a whole.

  Castle ravenloft was written in 1983 as a stand alone advnture, but was so popular it was written as a campaign guide in 1990. It's authors Tracy and Laura Hickman, originally wrote Ravenloft after an experience they had in another D&D module. They were just killing monsters when they came across a vampire. The vampire had no reaso for being there other than to be killed by the players, but it got Tracey thinking about how cool of an enemy a vampire was. Tracey thought the vampire deserved more than to die as a nameless mook in some random dungeon. He and his wife brainstormed ideas and eventually created the Ravenloft module. They point of Ravenloft was to tell a great and tragic tale. The Vampire Count Strahd wasn't the big bad because he had the most hit points but because he was a despot. He was a monster who stole people's lives and terroizes citizens. Though he may have once been a man, he was cursed with guilt and through his actions became a monster. Not just literally, but figuratively as well. The Ravenloft module was to inspire the players to fight this foe, though he may intimidating.

  The Ravenloft module did many things that are unique for a D&D module. The Ravenloft module had vertical maps that were uncommon at the time. Since D&D is a table top board game, the world around the players is often represented by a flat grid. These grids are usually the only representation players will get of their surroundings, and any monsters or enviroment details can be found represented within these grids. Ravenloft changed this by adding more verticallity to dungeons and encounters. Most D&D grids are assumed  to be on a flat surface, where all the rooms and floors are on the same level. However Castle Ravenloft is a vertical dungeon. It is standing above a large canyon, and the castle itself spans more than 5 floors, plus basements, and secret rooms. Because of this the dungeon can take on numerous new paths. In addition encounters can be more exciting because battles can include 3 dimensions.
  
  Castle Ravenloft introduces another interesting feature. The location of specific items is randomized, and the overall plot points can change depending on the certain dice rolls. This effect is not new, many monster encounter tables in D&D exist, which will randomnly generate monsters for the players to fight. Castle Ravenloft tables were much more broad, encompassing more of the story. The magic macguffin to defeat the big bad was placed in a different location each time the module was played.  Magical vampire slaying swords were placed in tombs, or in thrones, and the big bad himself can appear in a vareity of locations. The motives for the big bad Strahd also could change. He could be looking to turn on of the players into a vampire, or he might be looking for the soul of his lost love. These random elements made the module more replayable while also creating stories unique to each group of plaers.
  
  
	The Ravenloft module is an important aspect of the history of Dungeons and Dragons, not just by popularity, but directing the course of the game in the ensuing years. Even modules that did not focus on story still lifted aspects of Ravenloft, such as vertical maps and modular design. To this day Ravenloft has a venerable position as a cornerstone of Dungeon and Dragon design. There have been numerous adaptations of Ravenloft for every edition of D&D since its inception in 1983. Entire campaign settings have been made to answer questions of the numerous fans, books have been written, and new modules have been made.  Ravenloft remains a successful module to the Dungeons and Dragons vault, with many more story based modules owing their existence to the precedent that Ravenloft had established.
